---
id: vc-sharing
title: Verifiable Credential Sharing
hide_title: true
---

# Verifiable Credential Sharing

Bloom complies with the Verifiable Credential data model for structuring user data. There are emerging specifications for DID communication and VC handling, but for now Bloom uses their own method for requesting data from users. (TODO link share kit). The client is responsible for interpreting the Share Kit request, getting consent from the user, forming a Verifiable Presentation and sending data to the relying party.

## VC Sharing Overview

The client has the following capabilities related to VC sharing:

* Interpret Share Kit Request
* Obtain user consent for sharing data
* Form and sign Verifiable Presentation

### Share Kit Request

Link to Share Kit
Break down how client should handle this request.
Another part of client is responsible for indexing available VCs and seeing if user can fulfill request. Black box to this part of the client.


### User Consent

The Bloom client reference implementation collects user consent as showing in the image below. Todo add image.

The user is presented with the requester of the data, the privacy policy and terms of service, the data to be shared, and a 'slide to share' prompt.


### Verifiable Presentation

Verifiable Credentials are shared in the form of a Verifiable Presentation. The VP includes an array of VCs, in addition to a proof generated by the user which contains a signature for the sharing authorization.
TODO expand
